README.md, before:

# Mira Firmware
The firmware for the Mira AUV

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This software package is designed to run on ROS2 Jazzy which supports Ubuntu 24.04 LTS as Tier 1 and Ubuntu 22.04 as Tier 3

## Packages
- dependencies/
	- aruco_detector - Node to consume a ROS image feed and publish any detected aruco markers with pose
	- camera_driver_uvc - libUVC based camera node
	- control_utils - Contains utilities used in mira2_pid_control
	- custom_msgs - Contains the message definitions used throughout
	- vision_boundingbox - Contains the optimized node for Yolo11n inference on AUV hardware
	- vision_depth - Same but for depth anything (^)
- mira2_control_master - Takes input from ROS and forwards to PixHawk
- mira2_path_planning - Contains code to navigate a gate
- mira2_perception - Contains our perception stack
- mira2_pid_control - Contains depth tuner and yaw tuner for calibrating the control systems
- mira2_rov - Contains our joystick controller code

## Installation
Packages to install:
```
# Install uv
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | less

# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/davidnoronha1/mira.git
cd mira

# Install dependencies
make install-deps

# Sync virtual enviroment (python)
uv sync

# Fix for editor autocompletion
make fix-vscode
```

## Editing

### VSCode Extensions
Install the following extensions in vscode for autocompletion:
- [clangd](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=llvm-vs-code-extensions.vscode-clangd)
- [python](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python)

The settings should be picked up from `.vscode/settings.json`
There should be a popup in Vscode to install the same extensions

### Package Validator
To validate that you haven't done any mistakes in a ROS package, you can run the following 
```
uv run util/validator/validate_package.py ./src/<PACKAGE NAME>
```

## Usage

> [!NOTE]
> Make sure you aren't in a python virtual env already (conda), if you encounter python packages missing its usually because the uv venv isnt sourced or you are using conda

### Sourcing
```
source /opt/ros/jazzy/setup.bash
source .venv/bin/activate
source install/setup.bash
```

### Building
```
make build
```
or 
```
colcon build
```

If you encounter issues when building, make sure you have _sourced_ ROS2, By doing:
```
source /opt/ros/jazzy/setup.bash
```

Commit message:

Update README with documentation link and notes
Added usage instructions and documentation link.

README.md, after:

<img width="960" height="1280" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1f643f54-825b-4657-b129-be1897e39837" />

# Mira Firmware
The firmware for the Mira AUV
Please consult the [https://github.com/Dreadnought-Robotics/mira/wiki](wiki) for detailed usage instructions and documentation


> [!IMPORTANT]
> This software package is designed to run on ROS2 Jazzy which supports Ubuntu 24.04 LTS as Tier 1 and Ubuntu 22.04 as Tier 3

## Packages
- dependencies/
	- aruco_detector - Node to consume a ROS image feed and publish any detected aruco markers with pose
	- camera_driver_uvc - libUVC based camera node
	- control_utils - Contains utilities used in mira2_pid_control
	- custom_msgs - Contains the message definitions used throughout
	- vision_boundingbox - Contains the optimized node for Yolo11n inference on AUV hardware
	- vision_depth - Same but for depth anything (^)
- mira2_control_master - Takes input from ROS and forwards to PixHawk
- mira2_path_planning - Contains code to navigate a gate
- mira2_perception - Contains our perception stack
- mira2_pid_control - Contains depth tuner and yaw tuner for calibrating the control systems
- mira2_rov - Contains our joystick controller code

## Installation
Packages to install:
```
# Install uv
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | less

# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/davidnoronha1/mira.git
cd mira

# Install dependencies
make install-deps

# Sync virtual enviroment (python)
uv sync

# Fix for editor autocompletion
make fix-vscode
```

## Editing

### VSCode Extensions
Install the following extensions in vscode for autocompletion:
- [clangd](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=llvm-vs-code-extensions.vscode-clangd)
- [python](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python)

The settings should be picked up from `.vscode/settings.json`
There should be a popup in Vscode to install the same extensions

### Package Validator
To validate that you haven't done any mistakes in a ROS package, you can run the following 
```
uv run util/validator/validate_package.py ./src/<PACKAGE NAME>
```

## Usage

> [!NOTE]
> Make sure you aren't in a python virtual env already (conda), if you encounter python packages missing its usually because the uv venv isnt sourced or you are using conda

### Sourcing
```
source /opt/ros/jazzy/setup.bash
source .venv/bin/activate
source install/setup.bash
```

### Building
```
make build
```
or 
```
colcon build
```

If you encounter issues when building, make sure you have _sourced_ ROS2, By doing:
```
source /opt/ros/jazzy/setup.bash
```
